## Group
### Lec1
!!! Definition
    A group is a set $G$ with a binary operation $*$:$(a,b) \mapsto a*b$, satisfying:

    1. $(a*b)*c=a*(b*c).$ 
   
    2. $\exist$ an element $e \in G$, called the identity, $s.t.e*a=a*e=a,\forall a \in G.$

    3. For any $a\in G$,$\exist$ $a^{-1}$, called an inverse of $a$, $s.t.a*a^{-1}=a^{-1}*a=e$ 

    If $a*b=b*a,\forall a,b\in G$,$G$ is called abelian or commutative.

!!! example
    &#x2460; $(ℤ,+)$ is an abelian group.The identity is $0$.

    &#x2461; $(V,+)$ is an abelian group.($V$ is vector space over $F$)

    &#x2462; $(ℤ/mℤ,+)$ is a group.The identity is $\overline{0}$.

    &#x2463; Let $(G,*)$ and $(H,$ &#9702;$)$ be groups.We define $(G\times H,\Delta):(g,h)\Delta(g',h')=(g*g',h$ &#9702; $h')$.It's a direct product of $G$ and $H$, which is also a group.

!!! Properties
    Let $G$ be a group,
    1. The identity $e$ is unique.$proof$: 
    If $e'$ is also an identity, then $e=e*e'=e'$.

    2. The inverse $a^{-1}$ of $a$ is unique.
    $proof$: If $(a^{-1})'$ is also an inverse of $a$, 
     then $a^{-1}=a^{-1}*e=a^{-1}*(a*(a^{-1})')=(a^{-1}*a)*(a^{-1})'=(a^{-1})'.$

    3. $(a^{-1})^{-1}=a.$
   
    4. $(a*b)^{-1}=b^{-1}*a^{-1}$.
    By induction, $(a_1*a_2*...*a_n)^{-1}=a_n^{-1}*a_{n-1}^{-1}*...*a_1^{-1}.$

    5. (Cancellation law)
    $a*b=a*c \Rightarrow b=c$.
    $b*a=c*a \Rightarrow b=c$.

### Lec2
!!! Definition
    (1) ${s_1,...,s_n} \in G$ is a set of generators of $G$ if every element of $G$ can be written as a product of $s_1,...,s_n$ and $s_1^{-1},...s_n^{-1}.$

    (2) A relation is an equality consisting of the generators and their inverses.

    Write $G=\lang s_1,...,s_n|R_1,...,R_m\rang$ if every relation can be deduced from $R_1,...R_m$.

!!! Example
    $\mathbb{Z}_n=\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z} \cong \lang x|x^n=e \rang $.

    $\mathbb{Z}_6 \cong \lang r,s|r^3=1,s^2=1,rs=sr\rang$.

!!! Definition
    Let $\Omega$ be a set.The set $S_\Omega=$ { bijections  $\sigma:\Omega \longrightarrow \Omega$ } has a $gp$ struct:
    $gp$ struct : $\sigma\tau=\sigma$&#9702;$\tau$
    identity:$e=id_\Omega$
    inverse:inverse of map

!!! Example
    $S_n=S_{1,2,...n},|S_n|=n!.$
    Elements of $S_n$:
    the first expression:
    $\sigma= 
    \begin{pmatrix} 
    1 & 2 & ... & n \\
    \sigma_1 & \sigma_2 & ... & \sigma_n
    \end{pmatrix}$ , where $\sigma_i=\sigma(i)$.
    the second expression:
    consider $n=7$, $\sigma=
    \begin{pmatrix}
    1 & 2 & 3 & 4 & 5 & 6 & 7 \\
    7 & 5 & 1 & 3 & 2 & 6 & 4 \\
    \end{pmatrix}$,
    we can also write as $\sigma=(1 7 4 3)(2 5)(6)$, where $(a_1,...a_r)$ with $a_1,...,a_r$ distinct is called a cycle,that maps $a_1 \mapsto a_2 \mapsto ... \mapsto a_r \mapsto a_1$.

!!! Notes
    &#x2460; Disjoint cycles commute with each other.
    $(a_1$ $a_2)$ is called a transposition.
    &#x2461; $(a_1,a_2,...,a_r)=(a_2,a_3,...,a_1)$.
    $(a_1,...,a_r)^{-1}=(a_r,...,r_1).$
    &#x2462; $S_1$ is trival.
    $S_2=$ {$1,(1$ $2)$} $\cong \mathbb{Z}_2$
    $S_n$ is not abelian for all $n \ge3.$

!!! info Important conclusions
    &#x2460; $S_n$ is generated by $(i$ $j),1 \le i<j \le n$.
    &#x2461; $S_n$ is generated by $(i,i+1)$, $i=1,...n-1$.
    &#x2462; $S_n$ is generated by $(1$ $2),(1$ $2$ ... $n)$.

#### Group isomorphisms(群同构)

!!! Definition
    Two groups $(G,*)$ and $(H,$ &#9702;$)$ are isomorphic denoted by $G \cong H$,if there is a bijection $\psi:G \longrightarrow H,$ s.t. $\psi(g*g')=\psi(g)$ &#9702; $\psi(g'),\forall g,g' \in G.$



### Lec3
!!! Definition
    A group $G$ is cyclic if $\exist x \in G,s.t.G=\{x^k|k \in \mathbb{Z}\}$.

#### Two cases
$|G|=n<\infty,G=\{e,x,x^2,...,x^{n-1} \},G \cong \mathbb{Z}_n$.

$|G|=\infty,G \cong \mathbb{Z}.$

!!! Definition
    群$G$的一个子集$H$称为$G$的一个子集，如果$H$关于$G$中的运算也构成一个群.
    等价叙述：$H \neq \emptyset,\forall a,b\in H,ab^{-1}\in H.$
!!! Definition
    设$A$是$G$的一个子集，则$A$生成的子群$\lang A\rang:=\{a_1^{e_1}...a_r^{e_r}|r\geqslant0,a_i\in A,e_i=\pm 1 \}.$

    特别地，如果$G$是阿贝尔群，$A=\{a_1,...,a_n\}$，则$\lang A \rang=\{a_1^{k_1}...a_n^{k_n}|k_i \in \mathbb{Z}\}.$